\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename macchanger.info
@settitle MacChanger @value{VERSION}
@finalout
@setchapternewpage odd
@c %**end of header

@include version.texi

@copying
This file documents the GNU @code{macchanger} command for printing a
greeting message.

Copyright (C) 2003 Alvaro Lopez Ortega.

@quotation
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation
approved by the Foundation.
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory Networking

@direntry
* macchanger: (macchanger).             Utility for viewing MAC address
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title GNU Macchanger
@subtitle Utility for viewing/manipulating the MAC address of network interfaces
@author by Alvaro Lopez Ortega @email{alvaro@@alobbs.com}

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying

@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Stress

@end ifnottex

This manual documents MacChanger version @value{VERSION}, a utility for 
viewing/manipulating the MAC address of network interfaces.


@menu
* Overview::                    Overview of @command{macchanger}.
* Features::                    
* Invoking macchanger::         How to run @command{macchanger}.
* Examples::                    Some example invocations.
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview of @command{macchanger}
The GNU @code{macchanger} utility helps to view and manipulate the MAC
address of network interfaces.


@node Features
@chapter Features

@itemize @bullet
@item Set specific MAC address of a network interface
@item Set the MAC randomly
@item Set a MAC of another vendor
@item Set another MAC of the same vendor
@item Set a MAC of the same kind (eg: wireless card)
@item Display a vendor MAC list (today, 6200 items) to choose from
@end itemize


@node Invoking macchanger
@chapter Invoking macchanger
The program accepts the following options.

@table @samp

@item -h
@cindex @code{-h}
@itemx --help
@cindex @code{--help}
Print a usage message briefly summarizing these command-line options
and the bug-reporting address, then exit.

@item -V
@cindex @code{-V}
@itemx --version
@cindex @code{--version}
Print the version number of @command{macchanger} to the standard output stream.
This version number should be included in all bug reports.

@item -s
@cindex @code{-s}
@itemx --show
@cindex @code{--show}
Print the current MAC address and exit.

@item -e
@cindex @code{-e}
@itemx --endding
@cindex @code{--endding}
Change the MAC address setting the same hardware vendor as the current.

@item -a
@cindex @code{-a}
@itemx --another
@cindex @code{--another}
Change the MAC address setting a random vendor MAC of the same
kind. For example, if it's a wireless card, @command{macchanger} will
set another wireless MAC address.

@item -A
@cindex @code{-A}
Change the MAC address setting a random vendor MAC of any kind.

@item -r
@cindex @code{-r}
@itemx --random
@cindex @code{--random}
Set fully random MAC address: Any kind and any vendor.

@item -l
@cindex @code{-l}
@itemx --list[=@var{keyword}]
@cindex @code{--list}
Print known vendors. If a key is spefified, @command{macchanger} will
print only vendor that matches the string.

@item -m
@cindex @code{-m}
@itemx --mac=@var{XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX}
@cindex @code{--mac}
Set a specific MAC address. Each XX must be an hexadecial value (00 to
FF).

@end table

@node Examples
@chapter Example invocations

The simple case is that you just want change the hardware address of
the first ethernet network interface for a fully random one:

# @samp{macchanger -r eth0}

Long options are supported. The following change the MAC address for
another one of the same kind (for example, wireless):

# @samp{macchanger -a wifi0}

To execute this examples, the interface must be down, otherwise
@command{macchanger} will be exit with an error message.

@bye
